>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So,
for the next section,
we're gonna talk about adding
validation to the API.
Which again, I mentioned earlier that 400
bad request is my favorite response code.
And that's because it's the response code
that tells you when something is wrong,
and how you can fix it, okay?
It's kind of the guardian between that and
our real system.
We don't want invalid requests to
come in and mutate real data, and
then cause other problems.
So, in the previous course,
we touched on attributes, and
we used the required attribute to
ensure that a property doesn't
come across our API as null or empty.
So, there's a lot of these different kinds
of attributes, there's a bunch actually.
S, it's in the namespace
System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations, and
you can see a bunch of examples here.
So, required is probably
the most common one,
the one that I would if I use attributes
for validation, I use that the most.
It does have a few couple of
properties to modify its behavior,
including one that says
allow empty strings.
So, you can say that allow empty strings,
false to say that this first name
shouldn't have any empty
string whatsoever,
because that's an empty
string is a non-null string.
You can constrain the string
length to a certain degree.
So, you could say that a first name could
not be any more than ten characters,
and it must be at least three or
something along those lines.
You could also say that a value can have,
must fall within a certain range,
in this case,
this range is from 18 to 65 years old.
So, in order to create a person in this
system they can only be between 18 and
65, or at least that's
the valid part of the request.
You can even validate email
addresses which in and
of itself is a whole different rabbit
hole that I won't go down, but
the default ASP.NET Core
implementation does have that.
And then we have a phone number and
URL, you could say,
is this a valid URL, and
is this a valid phone.
So, how does this fit really into our API?
So, let's take a crack at refactoring
our post endpoint to use some of these
attributes.
So, you notice that let's go first to
close our folder, open up our next.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Adding
validation to our API, and we notice,
let's go ahead and run them.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Around here,
click this, get into a file, and
get our little play button,
perfect, that's what we want,
we can close some of these, shouldn't we?
There we go, all right, so we're gonna
look at our post request, and you'll
probably remember earlier that I said
that, let's see, what's the port number?
5129, that yes, we like this,
it's sending back 400 bad requests,
but we don't like this because it's
sending back this nasty stack trace.
It's sending back the entire stack trace
for our application for this particular
exception, which may include some details
that we don't wanna leak to the client.
In a non-production environment,
we're gonna see this,
but the caller's not gonna
see anything at all.
'Cause thankfully, stack traces,
ASP.NET Core does not like leaking
stack traces in production systems.
So, you can see that this isn't super,
super useful, especially considered that
if you're in a React app and
you're filling out these fields.
And you've added backend validation
because you should always add backend
validation.
And you've skipped front end
validation for now for whatever reason.
And you say, well, I've got this
response back from the system, but
I don't know what to do with it because it
doesn't have a structured way to tell me
what went wrong, right?
It's just a huge block of text, okay?
So, we don't get anything useful back,
but we can, and we should.
So, wouldn't it be nice if we
could return structured data?
And that's where we have this
thing called problem details.
This is actually a standard,
an RFC standard for
returning problem details
back to our client.
And I point this out to say that ASP.NET
Core likes to implement standards where it
makes sense, and in this case,
it does make sense.
So, first things we're
gonna do is we are going to
builder.Services.AddProblemDetails.
So, we're going to stop this,
go here, run this,
close this, and go,
builder.Services.AddProblemDetails.
And so, what that's going
to do is add some services
that ASP.NET Core can use to actually make
our error messages look a little nicer.
So, we're gonna go here and we're gonna
hit play and we're gonna see, hey,
we got something, we got structured data.
We actually got something that
a front end could parse, right?
Or a client can parse,
a machine can read this and say, okay,
I know what I can kind of
know what to do with this.
Well, kind of not really,
because I mean, yes, it is JSON and
it does give us a well, I know it's
a bad HTTP request exception and
I know the status code is 400,
but we got some detail.
Failed to read the, okay, well, we're
gonna step in the right direction, but
we're not all the way home yet.
Plus, I mean, frankly, it just has a bunch
of extra stuff that you don't need.
We don't need to know
the headers of the request,
that should be in
the response of the request.
I don't know why it's adding it to
the problem details, forget all that,
let's go ahead and make it prettier.
We get something better, but it's not
quite, we're gonna go ahead and go and
modify or create employee request.
We are going to make a couple of
changes to it, create employee request.
And we're gonna go down here,
and we are actually going to add
the required attribute here,
required attribute here.
And then we're gonna do something
a little bit funky, bear with me.
We are also gonna not allow empty strings,
because we don't want that.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Boom,
boom, we don't want empty strings for
our names either.
We're gonna make a slight change,
we're gonna actually make
this a nullable string.
Now, why on earth do we wanna
make it annullable string?
Well, the reason is we want our
caller to pass in an empty string and
have our validator handle it, right?
We don't want ASP.NET CORE to try to
deserialize this object and then panic and
throw a big exception, we don't want that.
So instead, because we wanna short,
we wannna get past that and
actually have it go through
our validation logic,
which would not happen if we
did not make these nullable.
We're going to instead make them nullable,
at least for
the case of the incoming request.
This kind of represents better
the looser nature of JSON.
And because we live in a fully integrated
world, it's important that sometimes we
have to make a couple of
compromises along the way,
this is a minor one, in my opinion.
So, now we can refactor our post endpoint
to handle the validation results,
which we will do here.
We're just gonna add in a little bit
of code at the beginning of our thing,
we're also gonna com fix these errors,
which we'll do here shortly.
Boom, boom, it's gonna complain,
give us some squiggly,
it's gotta import some things, so
we're gonna hit command period.
And using system component
model data annotations,
which is exactly what we want,
make that a little bit smaller here.
And so, what we're gonna do is
create a list of validation results,
this is where our validation
problems will go.
And then we're gonna call this validate,
we're gonna call the static method try
validate object,
break this down a little bit.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Now,
what does all this do?
Let's take a look at these arguments, the
arguments are the instance of the object
that we actually want to validate,
in this case, employee request.
We wanna give it a validation context, for
some reason we need to create that with
the employee request,
we'll touch on that in a second.
We'll give it the validation results so
that way, try validate object can say,
okay, well now since I'm only
returning true or false.
I'll go ahead and just dump anything that
I find that's wrong into this list or
enter this collection if it exists, and
then do we wanna validate
all properties true?
And then if not valid, we wanna return
results bad request back to the caller.
A note on this, you see that those fields
that we made nullable are now complaining.
But the Three nullable, and
we can't set a nullable object
to the a non-nullable object,
in this case a string.
So, the way that we get around
that is with the bang operator,
an exclamation point.
That pretty much just asserts
to the compiler yes, I know for
a fact that this thing is not null,
and we do, right?
We can know that because we
validated that incoming request,
so we're gonna hit that bang.
And we're gonna say, yes, we know this
thing is not null because at this point in
the code, me as the developer, I'm telling
you I know better than the compiler.
So, we're gonna override
the compiler behavior and
let this thing set this,
so that looks all good.
So, we're gonna run our solution.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
we're gonna try to do our request, and
we're gonna see something that's
already leaps and bounds better, right?
We're gonna see the exact name of the
member that threw the error in this case,
because our JSON body
doesn't include a last name.
We're gonna give it,
it's gonna tell us that, hey,
we got hung up on the last name property.
And by the way, here's the error message,
we're already light years
ahead of where we were, right?
Because we're at least giving
something useful to the client,
a react app could take this and
interpret it.
And then show an error message
on the screen to say, hey,
this thing is not valid, but it's still
not technically in problem details format.
You'll notice that if we go here,
if I look,
Results.BadRequest is just
taking in a validation result.
And it doesn't say, hey, return a problem
detail, we want that nice spec,
we are making an API that we
want developers to love to use.
So thus, we wanna make sure that we're
returning validation problems in a way
that's kind of standard, and we're
gonna standardize that across our API.
So, the way that we do that is by
a handy little extension method.
And we're going to use that to basically
take in a list of validation results and
return validation problem details.
So, we're gonna make an extension method
to do that, I'm gonna stop my application.
I'm going to go here, I'm going to
hit the plus sign, that's on that,
that's on the solution.
I'm gonna say, I'm gonna add a class and
I'm gonna call it extensions.
And when I'm making projects and
I'm adding cost of behavior and
want to be able to just quickly
convert one thing to another,
I'm using extension methods constantly.
It's like my it's one of my favorite,
extension methods or
one of my favorite language features.
And it's not super important that you
know what this is because spoiler alert,
it's not gonna exist forever.
But I'm gonna go ahead and
import this, and
you're gonna see that,
we're gonna import this as well, and
you're gonna see that we create
a validation problem details.
We spin through our validation results,
and then we basically just go through and
add it in the format that
validation problem details expects.
I do wanna touch on this because,
earlier I said problem details,
but why am I saying
validation problem details?
Validation problem details is
a derived type of problem details,
it's a derived type,
do you see I'm just clicking?
Let me do that again, just to show you so
as I mentioned, I do this a lot.
I navigate source code, so I'm holding
command and I'm clicking on it,
you see that it gives that
nice little underlying syntax.
And I'm getting the source code for
the thing that's built into ASP NET Core,
telling you I do it all the time,
I promise you.
And you're gonna see that validation
problem details inherits from HTTP
validation problem details,
which in and of itself valid,
inherits from problem details.
So, why validation problem details,
well, it's an object purpose built for
exactly the use case
that we're looking for.
Sending bad request back to the client so
that way they know how to fix
the error that they're getting.
Now, we can refactor our
post end point to use that,
we're gonna just call that method
to validation problem details.
Boom, boom, to validation problem details,
you see that we get it in our editor,
you hover over,
you see that it is indeed an extension.
We're not calling the method, and we need
to, otherwise it's just going to return
back a reference to the method,
which we don't want.
So, we're gonna get open,
close parentheses, call that method, and
then we're gonna go back here,
we're gonna hit play.
And we're gonna get back our
validation problem detail.
Notice that the error message is now
exactly bound to the member that failed.
So, React app could now take this and
say, well,
I know what field the last name came from,
right?
So, I'll just put this error message
under that last name field, right?
So, this is giving us pretty much anything
that we need to really have a strong,
validation story for,
an API that might be an external API.
Somebody might be calling it from another
external system, or we might be building
this API for a front end, so you get a lot
of power here, which is really awesome.
Now, we can also refactor our
test to read from this validation
problem detail if we so choose.
So, up to this point,
we've really only asserted in
our tests that our code is
one status code or another.
And I would say that that's a good
assertion, but it's a little bit anemic.
In other words, we can test other parts of
the behavior of our validation endpoints
by literally saying, well, I just don't
want to just know that it's a bad request.
I want to deserialize the object that I
expect and see that you actually have
the first name and last name in there
as part of those validation details.
So, I'm going to do that right quick,
I'm gonna go here,
I'm gonna go to my Visual Studio code.
I'm gonna open up my test project,
I'm gonna go to my unit tests,
stop our running of our application, and
I'm gonna go to our create endpoint.
I'm gonna paste this test in,
format it nicely, nice white space there.
And you're gonna see
that we need to import,
it's the way it goes,
command period, and then enter.
Let the IDE do all the hard work, and
then you're gonna see that we
are taking this bad request.
We're not just asserting that the status
code is equal to bad request, we're now
digging into the problem details object
itself by reading that as a JSON object.
And we're making sure that all of
the values that we expect in this case,
we expect that first and last name because
they're required are part of this.
So, we're gonna go and
that is gonna be what we do.
So, let's run our test,
make sure it all works, boom,
you can see that that
the test passed as expected.